CHALLENGES FACED AND SOLUTIONS: 
 
1. For computing trigonometric functions, without the use of Math library, Taylor series and Leibniz series was used, which provided the 
approximate solutions for majority of the functions. 
2. For some functions like the inverse tan function, the series logic which was bring used, 
somehow didn’t provide the estimated result, so for this and other such functionalities, 
other functions were referred to. That is to say, other functions were called in such 
functions, which then were related together by mathematical identities or equations and 
then coded. 
3. It was observed in quite some functions (e.g. squareroot) that for estimation, the loop 
progressed almost infinite times and no appealing output was obtained. For this, a 
check variable was introduced, which compares 2 simultaneous the values for the 
return variable, and if a very insignificant difference is found, it breaks the loop. 
4. Taylor series approximations required high looping counts for accuracy, so the end 
values for looping variables for core Taylor equations, were risen up to 90000. 
5. In power function, negative values had to be handled separately, as the loop’s ending 
value changed and the value is to be reciprocated. 
6. In some series, the signs of consecutive elements change, so a new variable sign was 
also introduced which was multiplied with terms according to the condition provided. 
7. In cos and sine, the values had to be restricted within a specific range for correct 
processing. 
8. In some parts of the program, when error occurred, appropriate statements were 
printed, however since nothing was returned error occurred. For this, return 
Double.NaN;, was used. 
9. In logarithmic, the negative reverse of value in function has been used which allowed the 
Taylor series to converge faster, which otherwise was taking quite some time duration.


However, there might still be diversions in program outputs from real accurate answers, due to 
the approximate nature of formulae used, as well as their implementation methods. This can be 
improved upon by exploring better methods of addressing the issues or other such ways. 
